…I was telling some of the folks backstage, I never ever thought we’d do this well this fast. This has been so incredible. What’s happened all over. What’s happened in Iowa. It’s been really incredible.
And I have to tell you legal – you come in and we’re going to have a good time and you’re going to be there and you’re going to do great – and visas – maybe work, maybe there are cases where you need people in and we’ll do something, we’re not going to hurt our economy in any way, shape or form. We’re going to make our economy much, much stronger.
But you know, we have an agreement with Japan and I love Japan. I love China. I love all these people. But their leaders are killing us because they’re smarter, sharper, more cunning.
Honestly, nobody else even knows about it. The other candidates, most of them don’t even know about it. It’s not their wheelhouse. Okay? It’s not their thing. It’s not their thing.
If I brought it to $100 billion a year, get rid of me in four years, all right?
And they asked a certain general, I’m not going to insult him. It was like a month and a half ago. On a show. A talk show. I said here’s general so and so, one of the top, top, top people. I said what’s he doing on television? And he’s saying “Well, ISIS is very tough. You know, they spread out.”
People say, “Mr. Trump, what’s your attitude on ISIS? When will you attack them? Where?
So I only say this and you know what? People might say “It’s terrible. He’s a terrible person, a terrible human being. But I’m going to vote for him anyways.” Okay, that’s fine. I’m actually a nice person.
And what happened and I haven’t talked about this before but I’m seeing what’s going on. It’s horrible what’s going on. What happened is the last time they had the Super PACs, I actually think there was sort of a wall. You know, they called it the wall.
So we take that and it’s something that I think is important.
Now, you look like you’re doing pretty well in all fairness. But still, we have 50 million. We have 46 million people and they’re getting food stamps. 46 million. Think of it. You know, we talk about how well we’re doing.
I hear only – I just hear terrible. And we’re going to solve that problem. You know, it can be solved.
And you are bringing up a point that I’ve heard before. We’re going to look at a lot of different things.
Israel feels so left alone and I know BiBi and a lot of my friends are from Israel and they feel so left out.
Our politicians live by a different standard and I think that shouldn’t happen. And some of them tried to do it.
