…I’m going to tell you a story about Nashville. You’re not even going to believe it. But it’s a very personal story. It’s a very special place to me for a very special reason.
So, coming over I heard and I watched television – you know, they have all these cameras back there and they’re live. And I guess we’re live on CNN, we’re live on so many different things. It’s always difficult. You know, when you’re always live, you’ve got to change up your speech. You can’t make the speech over and over…
Beada remembers that. You’d have a cold. The doctor would come over carrying a little bag like this big, beautiful little bag, being at the top. And he’d come over to your house, check you out, fine. Those days don’t exist anymore.
But you know, I’m leading big in Florida.
You saw the Quinnipiac just came out and that was an amazing poll. I was the same thing. Much, much higher – double and triple and quadruple many of these candidates.
We can save our country. We can save our country.
I’ve got the greatest deal makers in the world lined up to make deals for us. Carl Icahn – incredible guy. Right? Incredible guy. Great deal maker.
So it says “$50 million or more”, I go 50. So they’ll take $50 million for a building that might be worth a billion and honestly much more.
You know, people talk about the Tea Party and you talk about marginalizing, at least I have a microphone where I can fight back. You people don’t.
So, I’m on the front page of the New York Times. I can’t even talk about it. I’m embarrassed to talk about it.
And we’re going to build a wall and we’re going to get, you know, the gang members in Baltimore and in Chicago and these are some tough dudes. They’re going to be out so fast.
We can’t make our country great if we’re going to be poor. We’re a debtor nation. We owe $19 trillion.
Now, when other people do that, when a Carl does it – I mean, they do it all the time. They use it all the time. It’s called using your head. It’s called using the laws.
