"item_name","legal_illegal","additional_information"
Acorn Squash Legal 
Agar-agar Illegal Contains polysaccharides. See wikipedia:agaragar 
Agave syrup Illegal 
Algae Illegal We do not use algae (Spirulina) because IBD involves the immune system and algae can aggravate an already disturbed immune system. 
Allspice Legal As long as you're just using Allspice as a cooking spice, it's legal. Don't use the oil, see Allspice 
Almond butter Legal Almond butter with no sugar added is allowed. 
Almond milk Legal May be tried after being on the diet for 6 months. 
Almond oil Legal 
Almonds Legal Nuts sold in mixtures are not allowed, as most are roasted with a starch coating. Nuts should only be used as nut flour, in recipes, until diarrhea has subsided. 
Aloe Vera Illegal It contains mucilaginous polysaccharides as well as increasing the release of tumor necrosis factor which is associated with IBD inflammation and increased immune stimulation. 
Amaranth flour Illegal Amaranth is a grain substitute, contains starches and so is not allowed. 
Anchovies Legal 
Apple Cider Legal It is brown and not clear as apple juice is. It should be just straight pressed apples. It is usually pasteurized in order to kill bacteria. Cider should be diluted with water before drinking. 
Apple Juice Illegal Apple juice usually has sugar added during processing. Apple cider is allowed. It should be brown and not clear as apple juice is. Cider should be diluted with water before drinking. 
Apples Legal 
Apricots Legal 
Arrowroot Illegal It is a mucilaginous herb. Mucilaginous herbs are loaded with starch. This starch is food for the pathogens that the SCD(TM) is designed to starve out. 
Artichokes (French) Legal They are the green artichokes that you steam, then dip the leaves in lemon butter and scrape off with your teeth. They have edible hearts and an inedible choke. 
Artichokes (Jerusalem) Illegal They are actually a tuber, and are not legal. 
Ascorbic acid Legal Should be nothing but Vitamin C. 
Asiago cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Asparagus Legal Fresh or frozen is allowed. Canned vegetables are not allowed. 
Aspartame Legal When symptom free, one aspartame sweetened soft drink per week is allowed -Elaine. But see Aspartame in Knowledge Base. 
Aspartic acid Legal 
Astragalus Illegal contains polysaccharides 
Avocado oil Legal Good for mayonaise and salad dressings but might not withstand heat very well 
Avocadoes Legal 
Bacon Legal Smoked bacon that has been fried very crisply is allowed once per week. There are sugar-free bacons available and if you are able to find a source of sugar-free bacon, you do not have to limit your consumption to once per week. Usually the low sodium varieties do not contain sugar but check the labels carefully. 
Baker's yeast Illegal Saccharamyces cerevisae is baker's yeast and is illegal. 
Baking powder Illegal Has starch as an ingredient, (usually corn starch) and other illegals to make it rise better. 
Baking soda Legal 
Balsamic vinegar Illegal It's not that balsamic vinegar is illegal, it's that what you can get in the store isn't really balsamic vinegar and most have sugar added to them so Elaine doesn't allow it. You can make your own legal substitute though see scdrecipe 
Bananas Legal They must be ripe with black spots on the skin. 
Bark tea Illegal Bark tea (Pau d'Arco) contains steroidal saponins and is both an immune booster and a laxative. 
Barley Illegal 
Basil Legal 
Bay Leaf Legal 
Bean flour Illegal Do not use ready made flours made from beans or lentils as they probably weren't soaked prior to grinding to bean flour
Bean sprouts Illegal 
Bee Pollen Illegal Pollen is irritating to a damaged gut. Clear, pure, pasteurized honey is okay. Cloudy honey (still containing the pollen) should be avoided. Sheila 
Beef Legal Fresh and frozen are allowed as long as nothing has been added during processing; check the labels carefully. 
Beer Illegal 
Beets Legal 
Berries Legal Berries of all kinds are legal. 
Bhindi Illegal No okra (bhindi) or drumsticks, since they are a mucilaginous food, they are illegal. 
Bitter Gourd Illegal 
Black beans Legal May be tried when symptom free. Dried legumes must be prepared according to the instructions in the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle.' 
Black eye beans Illegal 
Black radish Legal It is very fibrous, so go slowly and be careful. 
Blue cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Bok Choy Legal Bok Choy is much like cabbage and is legal but you should not use a member of the cabbage family until you are well on your way to getting better. In other words, do not use if you still have diarrhea and gas. 
Bologna Illegal 
Bouillon cubes Illegal Bouillon cubes and instant soup bases are not permitted. 
Bourbon Legal Only have it occasionally. 
Brandy Illegal 
Brazil nuts Legal Nuts sold in mixtures are not allowed, as most are roasted with a starch coating. 
Brick cheese Legal May be used freely. 
Brie cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Broccoli Legal 
Brussell sprouts Legal 
Buckwheat Illegal 
Bulgur Illegal 
Burdock root Illegal It contains inulin (FOS) and mucilage. 
Butter Legal 
Butter beans Illegal 
Buttermilk Illegal 
Butternut squash Legal 
Cabbage Legal You should not use a member of the cabbage family until you are well on your way to getting better. In other words, do not use if you still have diarrhea and gas. 
Camembert cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Canellini beans Illegal 
Canned fish Legal Canned in oil or water is acceptable but check the labels carefully. Do not buy products containing "broth". Usually, the low sodium varieties do not contain "broth". 
Canned fruits Illegal Fruits canned in their own juice are allowed. 
Canned vegetables Illegal There are no canned vegetables permitted, they must either be fresh or frozen. 
Canola oil Legal Legal, but not recommended. 
Cantaloupe Legal 
Capers Legal 
Carob Illegal 
Carrageenan Illegal Carrageenan is seaweed and high in polysaccharides, therefore illegal. 
Carrots Legal 
Cashews Legal Nuts sold in mixtures are not allowed, as most are roasted with a starch coating. 
Cauliflower Legal Cauliflower is sometimes hard to digest and should be tried cautiously after some progress has been made on the diet. 
Celeriac /celery root Legal However, you should go slow and be careful. It is very fibrous, even if it doesn't seem so when you steam it and mash it. 
Celery Legal 
Cellulose (in supplements) Legal Cellulose in your supplements is okay and virtually impossible to avoid. 
Cellulose Gum Illegal 
Cereals Illegal However for a hot cereal see SCDrecipe Hot cereal 
Chard Legal Chard (red, green, rainbow and swiss). Chard is similar to spinach/celery so it is legal. It also reminds me a bit of the cabbage family so use with caution if gas is still a problem -Elaine 
Cheddar cheese Legal May be used freely. 
Cheese Legal If a cheese is not a processed cheese (manufactured) but is a cheese that has had a bacterial culture involved with its production and is aged at least 30 days. Elaine says its OK. 
Cherimoya Legal Also known as custard apple or sharifa. 
Cherries Legal 
Chestnut flour Illegal 
Chestnuts Legal May be tried when symptom free. However, if you buy dried chestnuts, soak them and cook them until soft. 
Chevre Illegal Chevre is illegal, but you can make a close approximation by dripping goat milk yogurt. Directions can be found at http://uclbs.org/recipes/dairy/suegoatcheese.php 
Chewing gum Illegal Contains things like aspartame, maple or date sugar and other sugar substitutes which are illegal. 
Chick peas Illegal 
Chickory root Illegal Chickory root is not legal. In my first book, I suggested that it might be used instead of coffee beans. I have since learned that it contains large amounts of fructooligosaccharides. -Elaine 
Chlorella Illegal It is a blue-green algae similar to spirulina 
Chocolate Illegal Dr. Haas advised not to use cocoa or chocolate and this still goes, it isn't just the sugar he was worried about. 
Cilantro Legal 
Cinnamon Legal 
Citric Acid Legal Citric acid as an additive is OK 
Club soda Legal 
Cocoa powder Illegal Dr. Haas advised not to use cocoa or chocolate and this still goes, it isn't just the sugar he was worried about. 
Coconut Legal Fresh or unsweetened, shredded coconut and coconut flour are all legal. 
Coconut milk Legal May be tried after being on the diet for 6 months. 
Coconut oil Legal Withstands heat well, good for frying/cooking, 
Coffee Legal Coffee should be made very weak. Instant coffee is not allowed. 
Coffee (instant) Illegal 
Colby cheese Legal May be used freely. 
Collard greens Legal Of the cabbage family, introduce late in the diet 
Cordials Illegal 
Corn Illegal 
Corn oil Legal 
Corn syrup Illegal 
Cornstarch Illegal 
Cottage cheese Illegal 
Courgette Legal Also known as zucchini 
Cranberry juice Legal We use Knudsen's Just Cranberry juice, as it has been checked out and does not have sugar added. It can be found in most health food stores. Juice should be diluted with water before drinking. Since this is pure cranberry juice it is very tart, you may sweeten it with saccharine or honey or dilute it with legal apple cider instead of water. 
Cream Illegal It is illegal as it contains lactose. Cream can be added to milk and then fermented to make SCD(TM)24hr yoghurt as the lactsose will be used up in the fermentation. Cream has less lactose than milk and the more fat it contains the less lactose it has. 
Cream cheese Illegal 
Cream of Tartar Illegal 
Croscomellose sodium Illegal 
Cucumbers Legal 
Custard apple Legal Also known as sharifa or cherimoya 
Cyclamate Legal It is actually a better alternative than saccharine, if you can get it, because it has no aftertaste. But it's almost impossible to find by itself, and certainly not available in NA. 
Date sugar Illegal May be tried after being on the diet for quite sometime and symptom free but it is not recommended. 
Dates Legal Medjool and California dates are allowed. They must be loose and not have anything added. Decaffeinated Products Illegal Decaffeinated products are not legal since the manufacturing process may introduce questionable ingredients or reactions.. 
Dextrose (contained in commercial products) Illegal The problem with the dextrose and fructose which is being sold as a granulated form as well as the dextrose contained in commercial products is that it is not pure dextrose which should be the same as the single sugar glucose found in fruits and honey. 
Dried milk solids Illegal 
Drumsticks Illegal No okra (bhindi) or drumsticks. Since they are a mucilaginous food, they are illegal. 
Dry Curd Cottage Cheese (DCCC) Legal DCCC sources 
Durum Flour Illegal Its a type wheat grain flour 
Echinacea Legal Especially if it is in Alcohol, but even it is in pill form with a bit of lactose. It can be very helpful if a cold or flu is coming on. 
Edam cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Eggplant Legal 
Eggs Legal 
EMPower Illegal Has many Illegal ingredients, Brown Rice Bran, FOS, Bifidus, flax seed 
Ethanol Legal Ethanol is alcohol -the kind in gin, etc. 
Evaporated cane juice Illegal Fancy name for sugar 
Ezekiel Bread Illegal Sprouted grain breads are illegal. 
Faba beans Illegal 
Fenugreek Illegal 
Feta Cheese Illegal Feta may be used after about 6 months of improvement. But used only in small amounts. 
Figs Legal Figs unpolluted by chemicals or additives are fine, however I find them, especially in dried form; to be a laxative. They also contain hundreds of tiny hard seeds which can be hard on the intestines. I'm still unable to tolerate them after almost a year on the SCD. If I were you I'd leave figs until you've been symptom free for at least a while. -Rob B 
Filberts (hazelnuts) Legal Nuts sold in mixtures are not allowed, as most are roasted with a starch coating. Nuts should only be used as nut flour, in recipes, until diarrhea has subsided. 
Fish Legal Fresh and frozen are allowed as long as nothing has been added during processing; check the labels carefully. 
Flax seed Illegal See Flax seed and flax seed oil within the Knowledge Base section. 
Flax seed oil Legal See Flax seed and flax seed oil within the Knowledge Base section 
Flour Illegal 
FOS Illegal Also known as fructooligosaccharides. See, FOS in the Knowledge Base section/. 
Fowl Legal All types including turkey, chicken, duck, goose, pheasant, pigeon etc 
Frozen Orange Juice (concentrated) Illegal If orange juice is just frozen and has no additives then it is legal, however frozen orange juice is normally concentrated before freezing and the process to concentrate it makes it illegal see frozen orange juice processing 
Fructose (granulated) Illegal 
Fruits (canned) Legal Fruits canned in their own juice are allowed. 
Garbanzo beans Illegal 
Garfava flour Illegal Made from two types of beans, Garbanzo beans and Fava beans, neither are SCD(TM)legal. 
Garlic Legal Use fresh garlic; garlic powders have starch added as anti-caking agents. You may also make your own garlic powder from fresh garlic by dehydrating it and grinding it yourself. 
Gelatin (unflavored) Legal It is a denatured protein that has lost its tertiary structure although it is not the best protein. 
Ghee Legal It's clarified butter 
Gin Legal Only have it occasionally. 
Ginger Legal 
Gjetost cheese Illegal 
Glucose candy Illegal Contains granulated glucose is known to contains other sugars in addition to glucose. 
Glycerin Legal Since glycerin is not a sugar to begin with, the "ol" at the end does not make it a sugar alcohol. Glycerin is considered to belong to the fat family. So does glycerol. 
Glycerol Legal Since glycerin is not a sugar to begin with, the "ol" at the end does not make it a sugar alcohol. Glycerin is considered to belong to the fat family. So does glycerol. 
Goatein Illegal It is a Protein powders that contains Bifidobacteria Bifidum. Protein Powders are a bad idea in any case as they're generally oxidized cholesterol -damaged by heat. Deborah 
Gorgonzola cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Gouda cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Granulated glucose Illegal It is known to contains other sugars in addition to glucose. 
Grape juice Legal White or dark grape juice is allowed. We use Welch's bottled grape juice, as it has been checked out and does not have sugar added. Avoid frozen grape juice, it usually has sugar added. Juice should be diluted with water before drinking. 
Grapefruit Legal 
Grapefruit juice Illegal Only legal if fresh. Frozen, or canned grapefruit juice is not allowed. Juice should be diluted with water before drinking. 
Grapes Legal 
Grapeseed oil Legal 
Green tea Legal Limited to 2 cups per day. 
Gruyere cheese Legal 
Guar Gum Illegal 
Gums Illegal All gums are illegal. 
Ham Legal Only if cured with salt, it is illegal if cured with sugar dextrose etc see Ham 
Haricot beans Legal These are legal and are the same as navy beans. Dried legumes must be prepared according to the instructions in the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle. 
Havarti cheese Legal May be used freely. 
Hazelnuts (filberts) Legal Nuts sold in mixtures are not allowed, as most are roasted with a starch coating. Nuts should only be used as nut flour, in recipes, until diarrhea has subsided. Hemp seed, Hemp protein 
powder Illegal 
HN-Zyme Legal 
Homemade yogurt Legal This is the SCD(TM) yogurt fermented for 24 hours to break down the lactose. 
Honey Legal 
Horseradish sauce Legal If homemade, if manufactured only if you know they have not added illegals 
Hot dogs Illegal Commercially produced hotdogs will normally be illegal but here is a legal recipe on SCDiet by Marilyn 
Hydrolyzed Protein Illegal This is another term for MSG. Regardless of whether it is SCD(TM) legal or not, we should all try to avoid it. MSG can be a potent neurotoxin. 
Ice cream Illegal Commercially prepared ice cream is not allowed. However, there are many wonderful recipes for homemade ice cream. 
Inositol Illegal Inositol is a sugar alcohol. Sugar alcohols will feed bacteria and that is something we do not want to do. Sugar alcohols generally cause diarrhea but small amounts in supplements are ok - Elaine 
Inulin Illegal Inulin is a FOS and is illegal, see Inulin 
Iron supplements Illegal Please do not get vitamins with iron; they encourage all kinds of infections especially in the gut, and iron has had much research done on it re other diseases. No oral iron if you can help it. Just eat the liver pate and if you like liver, eat it at least once a week. 
Isoglucose Illegal It is a new sweetner likely to be used in many products in future. See Isoglucose 
Jaggery (gur) Illegal 
Jalapenos Legal 
Jicama Illegal 
Juice from concentrate Illegal Juice from concentrate is normally illegal because when it is reconstituted they often add other things (like sugar). Often additives are not listed on the label 
Kale Legal 
Kefir Illegal See, Kefir 
Ketchup Illegal Commercially prepared ketchup contains sugar and is not allowed. See the gourmet section of the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle for a ketchup recipe. 
Kidney beans Legal (All Types) May be tried when symptom free. Dried legumes must be prepared according to the instructions in the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle. 
Kimchi Legal See Kimchi 
Kiwi fruit Legal 
Kohlrabi Illegal See Kohlrabi 
Konjac Illegal Also called konjaku, konnyaku, or the konnyaku potato, or elephant yam. The dried corm of the konjac plant contains around 40% glucomannan gum. See Miracle Noodles. 
Kudzu (or kuzu) Illegal It is a mucilaginous herb. Mucilaginous herbs are loaded with starch. This starch is food for the pathogens that the SCD(TM) is designed to starve out. 
Kumquats Legal 
KyoGreen powder Illegal 
L-Theanine Legal It is an amino acid, as long as its pure without illegal binders, etc its legal, as with any new food go slow introducing it. -Seth 
Lactaid Milk Illegal The rate of flow of galactose to the liver when one drinks lactose hydrolyzed milk is high. With lactose hydrolyzed milk, you are ingesting the two sugars: glucose and galactose at the same time. Note: Lactaid Milk is Lactose Hydrolyzed Milk 
Lactose Hydrolyzed Milk Illegal The rate of flow of galactose to the liver when one drinks lactose hydrolyzed milk is high. With lactose hydrolyzed milk, you are ingesting the two sugars: glucose and galactose at the same time. Note: Lactaid Milk is Lactose Hydrolyzed Milk 
Lamb Legal Fresh and frozen are allowed as long as nothing has been added during processing; check the labels carefully. 
Lecithin Legal Derived from soy (illegal). There is plenty of good lecithin in egg yolks, and Elaine sees no particular need to take it outside of a whole food. 
Leek Legal 
Lemons Legal 
Lentils Legal Dried legumes must be prepared according to the instructions in the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle. 
Lettuce Legal All varieties of lettuce are legal. 
Leucine Legal (supplement ingredient) 
Licorice Illegal Licorice is both a demulcent and a laxative. For more info on demulcents see, Licorice and Demulcents 
Lignin Illegal Grinding lignin and tough stuff does not prevent certain microorganisms from thanking you for chewing up their nutrition. The little buggers then respond by eating faster and making more babies and toxins. 
Lima beans Legal Dried or fresh are permitted. Dried legumes must be prepared according to the instructions in the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle. Limburger cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Limes Legal 
Liqueurs Illegal 
Liquid Clorychlorophyll Illegal 
Macadamia nuts Legal 
Macadamia oil Legal Makes the best tasting mayo -Deborah. Withstands heat well 
Magnesium citrate Legal (As a supplement ingredient) 
Magnesium Stearate Legal (As a supplement ingredient) 
Maltitol Illegal Sorbitol, mannitol, and xylitol are all sugar alcohols and are not SCD(TM) legal. They fall under the category of indigestible carbs and sugars, and so allow companies to label things 'sugar free', even though they are providing nutrition to the bacteria that live in your digestive tract. 
Maltodextrin Illegal Maltodextrin is the worst of the small molecules of sugars. It is a very short chain of glucose molecules (derived from starch). The chances of digestion are practically nil. It therefore will feed bacteria and because of its particular structure, Elaine feels it is worse than even lactose. 
Manchego Cheese Legal 
Mangoes Legal 
Mannitol Illegal Sorbitol, mannitol, and xylitol are all sugar alcohols and are not SCD(TM) legal. They fall under the category of indigestible carbs and sugars, and so allow companies to label things 'sugar free', even though they are providing nutrition to the bacteria that live in your digestive tract. 
Maple syrup Illegal Maple syrup is a disaccharide. 
Margarine Illegal 
Marshmallow Illegal It is a mucilaginous herb. Mucilaginous herbs are loaded with starch. This starch is food for the pathogens that the SCD(TM) is designed to starve out. 
Mastic gum Illegal 
Mead Illegal If homemade and ingredients are honey and yeast, commercial is likely to have sugar added and is illegal 
Meats Legal All fesh or frozen meats with no additives or processing are legal including beef, lamb, pork, liver, kidney, oxtail and tongue 
Meats (canned) Illegal 
Meats (processed) Illegal Most have additives such as starch, lactose and sugar e.g. hot dogs, turkey loaf, spiced ham, bologna, smoked meats. 
Melatonin Illegal 
Melon Legal All types are Legal 
Milk Illegal Fluid milk of any kind is not permitted. 
Millet Illegal 
Miracle Noodles Illegal Made of glucomannan, a water-soluble polysaccharide. Glucommanan is obtained from the root of an Asian plant called konjac (full name Amorphophallus konjac). It has been nicknamed the elephant yam, and also called konjaku, konnyaku, or the konnyaku potato. 
Miso Illegal 
Molasses Illegal 
Molo-cure Illegal The main constituent of Molo-cure is aloe. Aloe is not SCD(TM) compliant as it contains mucilaginous polysaccharides as well as increasing the release of tumor necrosis factor which is associated with IBD inflammation and increased immune stimulation. 
Monterey Jack cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Mozzarella cheese Illegal 
MSG Illegal Regardless of whether it is SCD(TM) legal or not, we should all try to avoid it. MSG can be a potent neurotoxin. 
Mucilaginous Herbs Illegal Slimy, mucilaginous substances are often prescribed as some think the "coating" properties are helpful to the intestines. They aren't. We who have compromised guts cannot digest this stuff but our bugs can have quite a party on it. 
Mucilaginous Polysaccharides Illegal Slimy, mucilaginous substances are often prescribed as some think the "coating" properties are helpful to the intestines. They aren't. We who have compromised guts cannot digest this stuff but our bugs can have quite a party on it. 
Muenster cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Mungbeans Illegal 
Mushrooms Legal 
Mustard (plain) Legal Mustard is legal as long as it doesn't contain illegal ingredients; read the labels carefully. 
Natural cheeses Legal See the appendix of the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle, for a complete list of allowable cheeses. 
Natural Flavors Illegal Natural flavoring can be used to refer to anything, including the chemicals coming from big "flavor" companies which sell chemicals to food processors. 
Navy beans Legal Dried legumes must be prepared according to the instructions in the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle. 
Nectarines Legal 
Nettles Illegal Adverse effects from consuming nettle tea can range from upset stomach to burning sensations in the skin, difficulty in urination and bloating. 
Neufchatel cheese Illegal 
Noni Juice Illegal 
Nutmeg Legal 
Oats Illegal 
Okra Illegal No okra (bhindi) or drumsticks, since they are a mucilaginous food, they are illegal. 
Olive oil Legal Olive oil withstands heat well, good for frying cookng and is highly recommended. 
Olives Legal Olives are legal as long as they do not contain illegal ingredients; read the labels carefully. 
Onions Legal Use fresh onions. Onion powders have starch added as anti-caking agents. You may also make your own onion powder from fresh onions by dehydrating them and grinding them yourself. 
Orange juice Legal Fresh orange juice that does not have sugar added is allowed. While diarrhea is active, avoid having orange juice in the morning. We use Tropicana's Original Orange Juice, as it has been checked out and does not have sugar added. 
Oranges Legal 
Oregano Legal 
Papayas Legal 
Pappadum Illegal They are an Indian snack made from lentils they're like a chip. Also contains rice flour 
Paprika Legal 
Parmesan cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Parsley Legal 
Parsnips Illegal At one time, I had them included in my book but after getting feedback from the inflammatory bowel listserv, I took them off. Some children do well with them; others do not. However, they are pretty good from a carb standpoint and Dr. Haas allowed them. -Elaine 
Passion Fruit Legal 
Pasta Illegal 
Pau 'Arco Illegal Bark tea (Pau d'Arco) contains steroidal saponins and is both an immune booster and a laxative. 
Pea flour Illegal 
Peaches Legal 
Peanut butter Legal Natural peanut butter with no sugar added is allowed. 
Peanut Oil Legal 
Peanuts Legal Peanuts in the shell may be tried cautiously after 6 months on the diet if diarrhea is gone. Shelled peanuts are illegal. Nuts sold in mixtures are not allowed, as most are roasted with a starch coating. 
Pears Legal 
Peas Legal 
Pecans Legal Nuts sold in mixtures are not allowed, as most are roasted with a starch coating. Nuts should only be used as nut flour, in recipes, until diarrhea has subsided. 
Pectin Illegal It is a polysaccharide which, in the presence of acid and sugar, gels. It is used as a thickener in jams, and occurs naturally in some fruit, like apples. In apples, it's mostly in the peel, and for someone beginning the diet, you normally wouldn't get too much from eating an apple, because you'd peel it. Pectin as an added ingredient is not legal, as it is a complex sugar. 
Peppermint tea Legal Some brands out there put in natural flavourings which would make them illegal, so check the ingredients carefully -Charlene 
Peppers Legal Green, yellow, and red peppers are permitted. Also jalapeno peppers, habanera peppers, chili peppers, poblano peppers, relleno peppers, etc. are legal. 
Peptizyde Legal 
Persimmons Legal 
Phosphatidylcholine Legal Another name for lecithin which is legal. Eggs have a huge amount of this but if you are not eating eggs, perhaps a bit of supplement is fine. - Elaine 
Pickles (dill) Legal Dill pickles are legal as long as they do not contain illegal ingredients; read the labels carefully. DILL PICKLES by Elaine Gottschall http://www.scdiet.net/elainesrecipes.htm 
Pine nuts Legal They are very hard to digest and even grinding them for pesto doesn't make them any easier on your gut. May be tried in small amounts after symptoms have subsided. 
Pineapple Legal 
Pineapple juice Illegal fall 2010 update: "The Dole 100% Pineapple juice in the can now adds Vitamins A, C and E. The Vitamin A is bound with cornstarch." old info: Fresh pineapple juice that does not have sugar added is allowed. We use Dole's unsweetened pineapple juice in the can, as it has been checked out and does not have sugar added. Juice should be diluted with water before drinking. 
Pinto beans Illegal Even after soaking they have the wrong kind of starch 
Pistachio nuts Legal They are legal, but the skins can be really tough for newbies. And don't get the pink dyed ones, or the salted ones because they can have starch added to them. You can get unsalted, unroasted pistachios at the health food store and then roast them yourself. For instructions see, Pistachio Nuts 
Plantains Illegal They contain too much starch. 
Plums Legal 
Polysorbate 80 Illegal See Polysorbate 80 
Pomegranate concentrate Illegal 
Pork Legal Fresh and frozen are allowed as long as nothing has been added during processing; check the labels carefully. 
Pork Rinds Legal Use the plain pork rinds with no added flavourings and check the label carefully to make sure they don't contain illegal ingredients Port du Salut cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Port wine Illegal Its full of sugar 
Postum Illegal 
Potassium Sorbate Legal (supplement ingredient) 
Potatoes Illegal Both white and sweet potatoes are illegal. 
Poultry Legal Fresh and frozen are allowed as long as nothing has been added during processing; check the labels carefully. 
Primal Defense Illegal See, Primal Defense 
Primost cheese Illegal 
Processed cheeses Illegal See the appendix of the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle, for a complete list of illegal cheeses. 
Protein powder Illegal See, Protein powder 
Provolone cheese Legal Although not listed with the other cheeses on page 140 of Breaking the Vicious Cycle, provolone cheese is legal. 
Prunes Legal 
Psyllium husks Illegal They are loaded with cellulose and lignin which some bacteria thrive on. We accept that the cellulose in vegetables and fruit can be handled OK but a concentrated form such as husks would not be in order. 
Pumpkin Legal Fresh pumpkin is legal, canned pumpkin is not allowed. Butternut squash may be used as a substitute for pumpkin in baking. 
Pumpkin (canned) Illegal Canned pumpkin is illegal. Butternut squash may be substituted for pumpkin in baking. 
Quinoa Illegal Since Quinoa is 60% starch, it is very illegal. 
Quorn Illegal 
Raisins Legal Try them cautiously. 
Rhubarb Legal 
Rice Illegal Both brown and white rice are illegal. 
Rice Bran Illegal Except as a supplement filler as it is mainly oil. If one is taking a supplement which has proven to be efficacious, then the small amount of filler within the supplement will probably not have an adverse effect. -Elaine. 
Rice Flour Illegal 
Ricotta cheese Illegal 
Romano cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Roquefort cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
Rosemary Legal 
Rutabaga Legal Also known as swede It is very fibrous, so go slow and be careful. 
Rye Illegal 
Saccharine Legal 
Safflower oil Legal 
Sage Legal 
Sago starch Illegal 
Sake Illegal It is not a distilled spirit like Vodka and it is the distillation that removes the illegals -Seth Both sweet and dry sake still have sugar and actually the dry sake has more sugar than the sweet sake but you can't taste it because of the acidity. -Kim 
Salt Legal Ordinary iodized table salt, altho it sometimes has dextrose, is legal because it is important to get that iodine 
Sashimi Legal (Japanese sushi-style raw fish served all by itself w/o rice) 
saukerkraut Legal Only for advanced SCD'ers 
Seaweed Illegal Seaweed is high in polysaccharides and therefore illegal. 
Seed Butters Illegal Seed Butters 
Seed Flour Illegal It is not allowed because the quantity of the flour way surpasses the few seeds that Elaine had in mind when she said "seeds are permissible after 3 months of no symptoms." Seeds Legal Permissible after 3 months of no symptoms. 
Sesame oil Legal 
Sesame seeds Illegal Sesame seeds 
Sharifa Legal Also known as custard apple or cherimoya 
Shellfish Legal Fresh and frozen are allowed as long as nothing has been added during processing; check the labels carefully. 
Sherry Illegal 
Silica Legal (supplement ingredient) 
Silicon Dioxide Legal (supplement ingredient) 
Slippery elm Illegal It is a mucilaginous herb. Mucilaginous herbs are loaded with starch. This starch is food for the pathogens that the SCD(TM) is designed to starve out. 
Smoked meats Illegal Unless you know with certainty that no sugar has been added during the smoking process, they are not permitted. 
Sodium Benzoate Legal (supplement ingredient) 
Sodium starch glycinate Illegal 
Sorbitol Illegal Sorbitol, mannitol, and xylitol are all sugar alcohols and are not SCD(TM) legal. They fall under the category of indigestible carbs and sugars, and so allow companies to label things 'sugar free', even though they are providing nutrition to the bacteria that live in your digestive tract. 
Sour cream Illegal 
Soy Illegal See - Soy 
Soy Lecithin Legal Derived from soy (illegal). There is plenty of good lecithin in egg yolks, and Elaine sees no particular need to take it outside of a whole food. Also see Carlsons fish oil 
Soy Sauce Illegal Soy sauce is a fermented soy product and also contains wheat so it is illegal. 
Soybean milk Illegal 
Soybean oil Illegal 
Soybeans Illegal 
Spearmint Tea Legal 
Spelt Illegal 
Spices Legal Spices of all kinds may be used, but avoid spice mixtures; buy spices separately. 
Spinach Legal 
Spirulina Illegal We do not use algae (Spirulina) because IBD involves the immune system and can aggravate an already disturbed immune system. 
Splenda Illegal There are several reasons why it is illegal, see Splenda 
Split peas Legal Dried legumes must be prepared according to the instructions in the book, Breaking the Vicious Cycle. 
Sprouted Grain Bread Illegal 
Squash Legal Both winter and summer squashes are legal. 
Stevia Illegal Its molecular structure resembles a steroid and the effects are unknown. See, Stevia 
Stilton cheese Legal May be used occasionally. 
String beans Legal Also called Green Beans 
Sucralose Illegal There are several reasons why it is illegal, see Splenda 
Sulphites Legal When a fruit such as peaches (dried) and coconut is sulphated, it means it has been exposed to sulphur to keep the color from darkening. Some people are allergic to sulphated products but most of us are not bothered by them. 
Sunflower oil Legal 
Swede Legal Another name for rutabaga 
Sweet Potatoes Illegal 
Swiss cheese Legal May be used freely. 
Tabasco sauce Illegal Only the original red Tabasco sauce, labeled "McIlhenny Company Tabasco Brand Pepper Sauce" is legal but as with all manufactured products check the ingredients. The other Tabasco styles all have sugars and gums added. 
Tagatose Illegal 
Tamari Illegal It is made from soy 
Tamarind Illegal See, Tamarind 
Tangerines Legal 
Tapioca Illegal It is a starch, therefore illegal. 
Tapioca Flour Illegal 
Taro Illegal It has much too much starch in it and is very similar to potatoes. 
Tarragon Legal 
Tea Legal Ordinary black tea is legal but should be made weak. Instant tea,Ojibwa tea (Essiac), many herbal teas, teas made from bark etc are full of polysaccharides and are illegal. Peppermint and spearmint herb teas are legal, and you can make a tea from ginger which is also legal. 
Thyme Legal 
Tofu Illegal It is made from soy 
Tofutti cheese Illegal 
tomato Legal Canned tomatoes are illegal. 
Tomato juice (canned) Legal Should only have salt added. Also see Tomato Juice -canned 
Tomato paste (canned) Illegal 
Tomato puree (canned) Illegal 
Tomato sauce (canned) Illegal 
Triticale Illegal 
Turbinado Illegal It is liquid cane sugar, therefore it is illegal. 
Turnips Illegal In the most recent printing of BTVC (Ninth Printing -May 2002), turnips were moved from the 'allowed' list to the 'not allowed' list. 
V8 Juice Illegal It has tomato paste listed as an ingredient. Elaine has listed tomato paste as being illegal. It is also made from concentrate and has added sugar. 
Vanillin Legal But not in concentrated form see Vanillin 
Vegetable stearate Legal I believe that stearate is always a fat (stearic acid) so vegetable stearate would be a fat from some vegetable like coconut, etc. --Elaine Vegetables (canned) Illegal Canned vegetables are not permitted; they must either be fresh or frozen. 
Vinegar Legal Red and white wine vinegar also white and cider vinegars are allowed but check the label for added illegals. Balsamic vinegar is not allowed as it has added sugar. However you can make your own legal balsamic vinegar substitute see scdrecipe 
Vodka Legal Only have it occasionally. 
Walnut oil Legal Doesn't withstand heat very well 
Walnuts Legal Nuts sold in mixtures are not allowed, as most are roasted with a starch coating. Nuts should only be used as nut flour, in recipes, until 
diarrhea has subsided. 
Wasabi Legal As long as it is in its natural state and hasn't had fillers added by a manufacturer 
Water chestnuts Illegal Nuts sold in salted mixtures should be avoided-most have been roasted with a starch coating. 
Watercress Legal 
Watermelon Legal 
Wheat Illegal 
Wheat germ Illegal 
whisky Legal Only have it occasionally. 
Wine Legal Very dry wine is legal. See, Wines for more information on dry wines. 
Xanthum Gum Illegal 
Xylitol Illegal Sorbitol, mannitol, and xylitol are all sugar alcohols and are not SCD(TM) legal. They fall under the category of indigestible carbs and sugars, and so allow companies to label things 'sugar free', even though they are providing nutrition to the bacteria that live in your digestive tract. 
Yams Illegal 
Yoghurt (commercial) Illegal Eating commercial yoghurt is not permitted. Commercial yoghurt may be used as a starter for making homemade yogurt. For directions for making yoghurtsee, See Commercial Yoghurt 
Yoghurt (homemade) Legal  See, yoghurt in the Knowledge Base section for instructions on how to make legal yoghurt. 
Yucca Root Illegal 
Zucchini Legal Also known as Courgette 