
The Omega Point in the Multiverse
based on works by Prof. Frank J. Tipler
document created in 2007

Currently there are less than 10^10^123 different universes in the multiverse. This number diverges to infinity as the Omega Point is approached.

The Final Singularity (Omega Point). Infinite entropy and infinite information.
The Initial Singulariy (start of the Big Bang). 0 entropy.
Radiuses of the universes.

Universes too large to develop structure. Entropy remains at 0.
Universes that develop structure. Entropy goes from 0 to infinity.
Universes too small to develop structure. Entropy remains at 0.
The All-Presents Singularity.
Proper time.

Sapient life develops, gradually taking over control of more resources in the universes with structure, eventually becoming ubiquitous throughout and in control over all resources in each of these universes.

During the colonization phase, life uses baryon annihilation for its energy requirements and for interstellar travel. In the process, the annililation of baryons forces the Higgs field toward its absolute vacuum, thereby cancelling the positive cosmological constant and forcing these universes to collapse.

During the collapse phase, life in each of these universes uses energy from gravitational shear by forcing a Taub universe collapse, thereby creating a temperature differential whereby usable energy can be obtained. The Taub-like collapse in one direction, and then another direction (i.e., Mixmaster oscillations), is also used to eliminate event horizons, which is necessary for information processing (and hence life) to continue. This mode of collapse ends (in proper time) in a single c-boundary (causal boundary) point: the Omega Point. The gravitational shear energy thereby available to life diverges to infinity as the Omega Point is approached.

Due to the increasing temperature of these universes during the collapse phase (which diverges to infinity as the Omega Point is approached), life will have to transfer its information processes to higher energy states, eventually using elementary particles to directly compute on.
