
The whole list for Alabama is: good, republican, good at football, bad at kicking, bad this year, trashy, dangerous, humid, religious, and cheap.
The whole list for Alaska is: cold, expensive, dangerous, big, republican, far away, warm, dark, expensive to live in, and depressing.
The whole list for Arizona is: hot, cheap, dry, cheap to live, boring, sunny, weird, cold, expensive, and cold this year.
The whole list for Arkansas is: poor, bad, cheap, dangerous, weird, boring, humid, hot, backwards, and republican.
The whole list for California is: expensive, popular, dry, hot, populated, bad, big, polluted, democratic, and expensive reddit.
The whole list for Colorado is: cold, expensive, healthy, dry, high, popular, square, windy, expensive reddit, and sunny.
The whole list for Connecticut is: rich, expensive, weird, small, strange, boring, dangerous, and expensive to live in.
The whole list for Delaware is: small, cheap, flat, windy, boring, business friendly, popular for corporations, democratic, irrelevant, and liberal.
The whole list for Florida is: hot, cheap, humid, flat, popular, populated, expensive, ghetto, rainy, and windy.
The whole list for Georgia is: cheap, cold, poor, bad, hot, cheap to live in, humid, boring, popular for filming, and backwards.
The whole list for Hawaii is: expensive, popular, hot, beautiful, expensive to live, warm, democratic, volcanically active, far away, and famous.
The whole list for Idaho is: boring, popular, republican, expensive, poor, bad, good for growing potatoes, weird, and cold.
The whole list for Illinois is: broke, flat, windy, blue, democratic, poor, cold, expensive, expensive to live in, and boring.
The whole list for Indiana is: conservative, republican, cheap, backwards, flat, weird, humid, poor, polluted, and popular.
The whole list for Iowa is: important, important for elections, important to the presidential race, white, important for voting, cold, important to the caucus, humid, democratic, and important to win.
The whole list for Kansas is: windy, cold, boring, republican, cheap, flat, bad at football, and humid.
The whole list for Kentucky is: poor, backwards, conservative, good at basketball, hilly, republican, humid, boring, cheap, and hot.
The whole list for Louisiana is: poor, dangerous, french, humid, weird, hot, swampy, conservative, dirty, and small.
The whole list for Maine is: safe, cold, cheap, poor, boring, white, weird, creepy, expensive, and unpopulated.
The whole list for Maryland is: rich, ghetto, gerrymandered, famous on tiktok, expensive to live in, democratic, boring, small, oddly shaped, and dangerous.
The whole list for Massachusetts is: rich, expensive, smart, cold, white, democratic, blue, expensive to live in, important, and boring.
The whole list for Michigan is: cold, bad, poor, cloudy, cheap, hard to get into, humid, dangerous, depressing, and warm this winter.
The whole list for Minnesota is: cold, expensive, blue, cold in the winter, great, democratic, boring, humid, cloudy, and rich.
The whole list for Mississippi is: poor, cheap, boring, red, hot, unhealthy, cheap to live in, dangerous, awful, and behind.
The whole list for Missouri is: dangerous, cold, cheap, conservative, republican, poor, boring, humid, hilly, and backwards.
The whole list for Montana is: big, unpopulated, cold, warm, sparsely populated, warm this winter, expensive, windy, dangerous, and empty.
The whole list for Nebraska is: bad, windy, flat, cold, humid, conservative, republican, cheap, and flooded.
The whole list for Nevada is: empty, dry, weird, cheap, windy, dangerous, important, sparsely populated, mountainous, and unpopulated.
The whole list for New Hampshire is: rich, white, conservative, important, important in the election, cold, safe, expensive, and boring.
The whole list for New Jersey is: expensive, rich, cold, weird, boring, italian, wealthy, popular, ghetto, and trashy.
The whole list for New Mexico is: poor, cold, empty, boring, dry, dangerous, enchanting, and windy.
The whole list for New York is: expensive, popular, dirty, populated, big, cold, crowded, expensive to live in, important, and famous.
The whole list for North Carolina is: cheap, bad, bad this year, popular, boring, cold, warm, humid, and backwards.
The whole list for North Dakota is: cold, conservative, boring, humid, flat, empty, rich, windy, republican, and expensive.
The whole list for Ohio is: cheap, bad, powerful, weird, flat, republican, cloudy, windy, depressing, and gray.
The whole list for Oklahoma is: cheap, windy, bad, humid, conservative, cold, hot, flat, republican, and boring.
The whole list for Oregon is: weird, expensive, cold, foggy, cloudy, rainy, expensive to live in, depressing, and democratic.
The whole list for Pennsylvania is: conservative, cloudy, backwards, cold, humid, weird, boring, good at wrestling, hilly, and depressing.
The whole list for Rhode Island is: small, democratic, catholic, poor, expensive, weird, liberal, boring, named, and called.
The whole list for South Carolina is: poor, dangerous, important, boring, conservative, humid, bad, violent, sandy, and  so cheap.
The whole list for South Dakota is: cold, windy, boring, happy, humid, flat, dangerous, ta so poor, uth dakota today, and e in south dakota.
The whole list for Tennessee is: cheap, dangerous, violent, republican, conservative, poor, boring, popular, humid, and hot.
The whole list for Texas is: cheap, big, great, flat, republican, humid, popular, warm, expensive, and rich.
The whole list for Utah is: weird, white, cold, mormon, religious, boring, hot, republican, depressed, and strict with alcohol.
The whole list for Vermont is: blue, dangerous, safe, rural, cold, cheap, democratic, socialist, expensive, and poor.
The whole list for Virginia is: rich, warm, wealthy, boring, hot, strict, conservative, strict on speeding, and expensive.
The whole list for Washington is: cloudy, warm, cold, expensive, rainy, depressing, hot, humid, smoky, and foggy.
The whole list for West Virginia is: poor, bad, obese, cheap, republican, conservative, hilly, scary, backwards, and creepy.
The whole list for Wisconsin is: drunk, cold, boring, warm, german, cheap, expensive, weird, and conservative.
The whole list for Wyoming is: windy, cold, empty, republican, boring, square, cheap, wealthy, small, and expensive.
